Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we had a very historic occasion in the United
States Senate this week when the two distinguished senators from the new state of Hawaii, the
beautiful state of Hawaii, were introduced and sworn in as members of the United States
Senate. And I'm very happy to have them here with me on this occasion to introduce them
to the people of Tennessee. On my right first I will introduce Senator Haram Fong, who
is the first person of Chinese descent who has ever been a member of the Congress. It's
a great pleasure to have you on this program, Senator Fong.
My pleasure, Senator Kifapa, to be here with you.
Thank you. And we have a special interest in the Senator on my left, Orrin Long. He went
to school at Johnson Bible College near Knoxville, Tennessee, and he came back as principal or
superintendent of that college a sometime later. And he married a very lovely Tennessee
girl, Mr. Geneva Rule. Sure he's good to have you, Orrin. Say something to the people
of Europe. We consider you our third Senator, you know.
Thank you, Esther. It's a great privilege to be here. Senator Long was the governor of
Hawaii for time, and he is a member of the Democratic Party. When you're coming down to see us
in Tennessee, Orrin, we expect to spend our vacation in Knoxville just as soon as the
session adjourns. Well wonderful, I'll be right there. We have better place. I hope
that you'll cool it off a little bit before we get there. Well it'll be cool in the
mountains. That's right. And we'll go up to Goblinburg and Smoky Mountain National Park.
Senator Fong, you graduated from Harvard Law School. You were a great lawyer, served
in the Air Force in Italy as a major during the war. Air force in the second field.
Yes. Have you been, have you ever been to Tennessee? Yes, I've passed with Tennessee
approximately ten years ago on my way from New Orleans to Washington. On the train? Yes,
on the train. Well we want you to stay longer this, I want you to come down and see the
TVA and stay here for real visit sometime. Alex, how did, which one of you are the senior
senator? How did you decide that? Well, send along, gave me the title. He flipped the
coin and he yelled heads and tailed King. Is that right, Orrin? That's correct. Well
and then we had a very unusual situation. You were just both elected as usual. It was
a case of Alaska also as senators. Then you have, we had to go through a process of deciding
which would be the, well you'd have a two year term, a four year term or a six year
term. How was that decided? Send it along. That was decided by drawing. I, by a flip of
the coin, I had the privilege of drawing first as between six years and a blank. I drew
the blank. And so that's the long of the six years. I had no six years left on one
year. So you have a six year term, Senator Fong, and then I had to draw as between the
two year and a four year term. And luck was wet to me, I drew the four year term. Well,
that's fine. So everybody's very happy about it. Well, Senator Fong is a Republican and
Senator Long is a Democrat. Well, what's your impression about the United States Senate
of the Fong? My impression that I've got a lot to learn. I'm going to keep up with it.
I'm learning very, very slowly. Well, you go back to how long you win the Congress when
the guests are well. If it ever gets over, I don't know when we get over. You think you
can get over soon? A lot of no one's entered the lot. I don't know. I'm Fredrick's press
and opinion. What's your impression? What are your plans for the future or? My outstanding
impression is the Greek friendliness of the man and the one lady that makes up the membership
of 98 or 98 constituents. Wonderful. I'm so cheated with him. That's very wonderful
of you to say that. Well, I certainly appreciate you being on the program and happy to have
introduced you to the people of my state. We'll look for you in Tennessee sometime.
That's all until next week at this time. Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, as this broadcast is coming to you, the Senate
Appropriations Committee, which I'm a member, is very busy considering a wide variety of
projects which include many for Tennessee about six or seven subcommittees or meetings
every day. The President's budget request included among other items the following.
$153,000 for paving a portion of the Gatlinberg spur of the foothills Parkway and a lot of
money for construction of the Parkway. $1,900,000 for the completion of the Gatlinberg
bypass and about $730,000 for grading and improving work on a Natchez Trace Parkway in
a little swan creek area. The budget also calls for the following flood control monies
under the Mississippi River and tributaries. West Tennessee adraignage district $400,000.
Wolf River channeled the version and flood controlled in Shelby County $500,000. And the Memphis
Harbor Project $640,000. Last year, where the Congressman Everett taking the lead, we were
successful for the first time in getting money to begin the work on the Oban and Forkadeer
Rivers. This started channeled clearance and straightening to let the flood waters out into
the Mississippi River. Much farmland and many sections of highway in the Dye's Berk area
have suffered from these flood waters for many, many years. And please that the President
has asked for another $400,000 to continue this important flood control work. And we will
certainly push hard for it in the committee. The same is true of the Wolf River channeled
the version work at Memphis. Cutting the new channel through the Mississippi, through
to the Mississippi, will do much toward removing the unpleasant odors in the North Memphis
and downtown area. It will also remove many acres of bottomlands in Shelby County from
repeated flooding during high water stages. I might also mention here that the budget included
$17 million for work on the bark bed dam. While this is being built in Kentucky, the benefit
will spread through many sections of our state. At the northern portion where the impounded
waters will back up and offer many miles of recreational shoreline and also transportation
navigation. Now there has been no budget request for additional mileage and the interstate
highway program to build a road from Nashville to Dye's Berk. But Governor Ellington has
started, has stated that this is a much needed addition to the system and that he is working
hard for it. And we will certainly exert every effort here to see that it is included in
the system. It would provide a much needed link between the northern, northwestern portion
of our state and the capital. It would also fill a yawning gap in our interstate system.
The new section would be carried over the Mississippi River via bridge to connect to Missouri
where the rest of the present plant interstate highway system. And while I'm on the subject
of this interstate highway system, of course we want a good road from Memphis north to Chicago
sometime. I've also learned from Bill Ferris, the Public Works Commissioner at Memphis,
that the Bureau of Public Road is seeking to narrow the middle neutral strips in the Memphis
and Shelby County marriage from 40 feet to 16 feet. I've already undertaken to put a stop
to this. The 40 foot neutral strips are a sound investment. Future traffic loads will
create the need for additional traffic lanes on these interstate sections. To have the
40 foot strips now means that the new space will not have to be acquired at higher cost
when the time for expansion comes many years hence. There are many other items on the appropriation
docket now before us. I wish I could cover all of them in this brief time, but I cannot.
I do want to mention the Cherokee National Forest, the Tennessee Valley Authority, and
also the Fish Hatchery at Irvin, Tennessee. The budget only has far enough funds to maintain
the present hatchery. I plan to offer an amendment which will provide for a complete
overhaul of the Fish and Wildlife Service at Hatchery at Irvin. The additional amount I will
seek would also provide for a biological program for the Smoky Mountain National Park. And
that's it. And Mr. Worf said he would go along with this. All of these programs, whether
they deal with keeping our national parks and forest and outdoor sports up to snuff,
or whether they continue meeting needs of flood control and roads and highways are very
important, not only to Tennesseans, but to our nation. And we will continue to see that
they are properly provided for. Thank you very much until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessean, today we are very honored in having with us
an old friend of mine. They distinguished the senator from State of Pennsylvania, Senator
Hugh Scott. Welcome to our program. And I know your friends in Tennessee will be glad
to see you again, Hugh. Well, I'm delighted to be here as this. I appreciate the opportunity
to talk to all your friends all over the state of Tennessee. Well, thank you. And for
your information, friends, Senator Scott came to the House of Representatives in 1941,
two years after I did. I had a nice office, which I moved out of about that time. I believe
you mean? I got you right. I got my office. Then in 1948 and 1949, as you will remember,
Congressman Scott at that time as the chairman of the Republican National Committee, succeeding
our colleague and the Carolries of Tennessee. And then Senator Scott came to the Senate two
years ago and is one of the leaders of the United States Senate. Friends of today, we
want to talk for a little while about something that everybody is interested in. We all talk
about juvenile delinquency and bad effects and bad influences upon children. One thing that
we know about and everybody is trying to do something about is to stop the flow of indecent
illicit, pornographic literature, which is being sent through the males and otherwise to the
youth of our land trying to poison their minds. Senator Scott has introduced a resolution, which I'm
co-sponsored, which I think is the most far-reaching effort to try to bring people together overall to
do something about this problem that we have had in the Congress of the United States. Senator
Scott, will you tell us about the resolution that you have filed? Well, as just the resolution
authorizes and directs the president to call a conference to develop ways and means of controlling
traffic in obscene literature and materials, it would have the president calling that conference
a federal and state and local officials, representatives of city or civic organizations, persons
who are primarily interested, it would call for the help of the office of the Post-Massage
General, the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, advice from the Department of Justice,
and would seek to attack this problem from every possible standpoint and come up with recommendations
as to where legislation is needed. And I recall that in the first session of this Congress, you
introduced Senate Bill 2562 and it was co-sponsored by a number of senators and that is one of the
approaches which certainly has to be given serious consideration, which is the approach by criminal
penalty and by increased penalties for the second and third offenses. And you certainly ought
to be congratulated for having started the ball rolling over here. Now, in following up the
impetus which you and your associates gave in this bill, it's my thought that we will also
approach it from the standpoint of federal state cooperation, from the standpoint of education,
of arousing and focusing public opinion, and from every other aspect which this study group could
consider. Well, I want to say that as a former chairman and as a member of the juvenile
delinquency subcommittee, we've been working on this problem and I think this is a, but it never
has been brought together the local people, the state and the federal people and that's a
your great effort. Incidentally, an internacy of the Federation, Federated Women's clubs have
been doing a great job in civic organizations. But what is the outlook for this very plan?
Well, I would, I have no reason to believe that there is any opposition. We are going to ask for
hearings, the White House, I believe will take a favorable attitude to it and I'm very hopeful
that something can be done. Well, I know the pushmaster general will because he certainly has been
carrying on a great crusade and he's estimated this traffic to be $500 million a year which is
terrible. Well, our time is up, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Senator Scott.
Thank you very much, Senator. We'll see you again soon.
Ladies and gentlemen, Friends of Tennessee, during the many years that I served on the Armed Services
Committee, we had Dr. Ralph Lapp before us, one of our great noted nuclear physicists,
a man who had much to do with the development of the A-Bomb who has written many books such as
The Voice of the Lucky Dragon, new discoveries and I'm sure all of you are familiar with this
imminent science. I've always wanted to have him on this program and we have him today.
Certainly I'd like to welcome you here.
Dr. Lapp, I have great knowledge and as much as anyone I know about missiles, atomic energy,
whether we are following the right programs or not. So Ralph, tell us how we are getting along
in connection with atomic energy and hydrogen energy, vis-a-vis the Soviet Union. What's happening
in this race today? Well, then the race, which is the race for destruction almost, it's difficult
to say one can ever really be ahead, but our present for defense policy is based upon a turn.
Upon preventing the enemy from attacking us by the power to retaliate.
And in that connection there's a great argument on Capitol Hill as to whether or not the United
States actually has sufficient power. To my mind it is more a question of in the future two to three
years from now, will the United States military forces be strong enough to deter the Russians?
And I think that there are some very real doubts about this.
Well, I've been interested in whether we are making the right decision in connection with having
fixed bases for ICBMs and Atlas missiles or whether the Polaris, whether the A-submarine,
atomic submarine with the Polaris missile offers us more defense and a better opportunity
of retaliation in the event we were attacked. Well, I think that anything that is fixed in geography,
that is especially on this continent is now vulnerable to attack. This wasn't originally the case
because we didn't think these intercontinental ballistic missiles would be that accurate.
Even if you harden the base nowadays and there are going to be 270 of these put in continental USA.
And even if you harden these, the Russian missiles will be sufficiently accurate, 1962 and 1963
when these bases are operational so that they can knock them out. And that means your deterrent will
not be believable. It will not survive an enemy attack. Therefore, he may be able to get away
with whatever he wants to. And how about the atomic submarine with the Polaris missile, which we
all very much interested in? I think this is a very superior type of deterrent for one reason that
it is difficult for the enemy to knock it out. In other words, it is survivable. Secondly,
from the standpoint of being off the continent, it doesn't draw nuclear fire to the United States.
Dr. Leopold, how are we getting along in connection with our rockets in our contests?
Whether it's Soviet Union and rockets, and what should we do to catch up and to get ahead?
Well, that's a big order for a very short end, I'll say this. We are behind the Russians in space.
We are behind in a space race that we ourselves announced in 1955.
We lack this rust. We lack the power of our rockets to put into orbit into space.
The kind of things the Russians have been so successful in doing. We have not made up that yet.
Furthermore, we have not been able to fuse together the military and the civilian aspects of the space race.